\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c Copyright (c) 2019-2022, John Donoghue <john.donoghue@ieee.org>
@c Octave Audio - Audio Toolkit for GNU octave.

@c For manually generating the documentation use
@c   LANGUAGE=en makeinfo --html --no-split audio.texi

@c %*** Start of HEADER
@setfilename audio.info
@settitle Octave Audio - Audio Toolkit for GNU octave
@afourpaper
@paragraphindent 0
@finalout
@set VERSION 2.0.5
@c @afourwide
@c %*** End of the HEADER

@include macros.texi

@c %*** Start of TITLEPAGE
@titlepage
@title Audio Toolkit @value{VERSION}
@subtitle Audio and MIDI functionality for @acronym{GNU} Octave.
@author John Donoghue
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2019-2022 John Donoghue

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.

@page
@heading Distribution
The @acronym{GNU} Octave Audio package is @dfn{free} software.
Free software is a matter of the users' freedom to run, copy, distribute,
study, change and improve the software.
This means that everyone is free to use it and free to redistribute it
on certain conditions.  The @acronym{GNU} Octave Audio package
is not, however, in the public domain.  It is copyrighted and there are
restrictions on its distribution, but the restrictions are designed to
ensure that others will have the same freedom to use and redistribute
Octave that you have.  The precise conditions can be found in the
@acronym{GNU} General Public License that comes with the @acronym{GNU}
Octave Audio package and that also appears in @ref{Copying}.

To download a copy of the @acronym{GNU} Octave Audio package, please visit
@url{http://octave.sourceforge.net/audio/}.

@end titlepage
@c %*** End of TITLEPAGE

@dircategory Math
@direntry
* Octave Audio: (audio).          Audio Toolkit for Octave
@end direntry

@c %*** Start of BODY
@contents
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Introduction
The Audio toolkit is a set of functions for manipulating MIDI devices and files for GNU Octave
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Installing and loading::    Installing and loading the Audio toolkit
* Basic Usage Overview::      Basic Usage Overview
* Function Reference::        Audio toolkit functions
* Copying::                   Copying
* Index::                     Index
@end menu

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Installing and loading
@chapter Installing and loading
@cindex Installing and loading

The Audio toolkit must be installed and then loaded to be used.

It can be installed in @acronym{GNU} Octave directly from octave-forge,
or can be installed in an off-line mode via a downloaded tarball.


The toolkit has a dependency on the RTMIDI library (@url{https://github.com/thestk/rtmidi}), so it must be installed in order
to successfully install the toolkit.

For Fedora: @code{yum install rtmidi-devel} 

For Ubuntu: @code{apt install librtmidi-dev} 

The toolkit must be then be loaded once per each @acronym{GNU} Octave session in order to use its functionality.

@section Windows install
@cindex Windows install
If running in Windows, the package may already be installed, to check run:

@example
pkg list audio
@end example

Otherwise it can be installed by installing the requirements and then using the online or offline install method.

@section Online Direct install
@cindex Online install
With an internet connection available, the Audio package can be installed from
octave-forge using the following command within @acronym{GNU} Octave:

@example
pkg install -forge audio
@end example

The latest released version of the toolkit will be downloaded and installed.

@section Off-line install
@cindex Off-line install
With the Audio toolkit package already downloaded, and in the current directory when running
@acronym{GNU} Octave, the package can be installed using the following command within @acronym{GNU} Octave:

@example
pkg install audio-@value{VERSION}.tar.gz
@end example

@section Loading
@cindex Loading
Regardless of the method of installing the Audio toolkit, in order to use its functions,
the toolkit must be loaded using the pkg load command:

@example
pkg load audio
@end example

The toolkit must be loaded on each @acronym{GNU} Octave session.

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Basic Usage Overview
@chapter Basic Usage Overview
@cindex Basic Usage Overview

The Audio package must be loaded each time a @acronym{GNU} Octave session is started:
@example
pkg load audio
@end example

The Audio toolkit provides 3 main types of MIDI functionality:

@table @asis
@item Device functions
These are functions that directly allow opening, sending and receiving MIDI messages.
@item Controller functions
Functions that provide a layer on top of the device functions for using MIDI controls.
@item File functions
Basic functions that allow read and write of MIDI files.
@end table

To read and write to a MIDI device, a MIDI device object must be created, using the name or id
of a known MIDI device as provided by the mididevinfo function.

MIDI devices can then be read using the midisend and midireceive functions that use midimsg type to encapsulate the MIDI data.

@example
% list the midi devices
devs = mididevinfo

% open a midi device, specifying the first input and output MIDI device
dev = mididevice("input", devs.input@{1@}.ID, "output", devs.output@{1@}.ID)

% receive data and echo it through the output port
while true
  msg = midireceive(dev, 1);
  if !isempty(msg)
    midisend(msg);
  endif
endwhile
@end example

An overview of the package can be displayed by running @code{help audio}

Help for each function can be displayed by  @code{help thefunctionname}

ie: 
@example
help mididevice
@end example

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Function Reference
@chapter Function Reference
@cindex Function Reference

The functions currently available in the Audio toolkit are described below:

@include functions.texi

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------

@include gpl.texi

@c -------------------------------------------------------------------------
@node Index 
@unnumbered Index 
 
@printindex cp
 
@bye
